Ok
so we created our first web component and it is working
but obviously this component is not doing anything useful here,
well it's time to now change that. The core idea behind our own web components, behind our custom elements
is in the end that we attach other existing HTML elements like divs and buttons and paragraphs
to build more powerful widgets composed of these different elements
and by the way, the already built-in video element which is a normal HTML tag is kind of like a web
component
we could build on our own.
It's one HTML tag but behind the scenes if we had a video being loaded here, you would see that it
is made up of a couple of buttons, like the play button and so on
and that is just what we want to build here on our own.
So since we want to render a tooltip there, what would make sense is that we for example have a paragraph
with some text or let's actually say in the end we want to use that tooltip inside of a paragraph
we might have, like web components are awesome,
this could be our text and our tooltip here should maybe be spanning that web components word here so
that later when we hover over web components or over some icon which should be inserted next to it, that
we then automatically see a tooltip with some text
we also define. Now we're not there yet but we can get there and let's start by actually adding a button
or
an icon after the text we pass here so that we can actually see that. For that, I'll go back to the
tooltip and instead of logging something for the console here, we can steady use the this keyword which
is built into Javascript to access the the web component object, so the HTML element object which will
be created for us when the browser detects this tag being used
and here we can use all the features we can use on normal HTML elements when we select them
in Javascript too.
For example we can append a child Node, so we can append another HTML element inside of our custom
element
and that sounds promising because there, I actually want to append my own
icon let's say, my own icon above which we later can hover.
And for that, I can simply call document create element here and I will create a span here, a span element
and that of course is not a custom web component,
it is an element built into the browser because in the end, all your components you're building will
be made up of these core primitives,
of these built-in elements. You just compose them differently, style them differently and add your
own event listeners, your own logic to do something when a certain button gets clicked and so on.
So all this composition, all this logic will in the end make up your own element.
So here I'm creating a span and I will store that in a new constant,
so basically a variable which I'll never change,
this is also a built-in Javascript feature using next-gen Javascript syntax which Chrome, the latest version
of it natively supports and I'll name this constant tooltipIcon, the name is up to you
and on that tooltipIcon, I'll then set the text content equal to a whitespace, so a blank here and then
parentheses and let's say questionmark inside of it and you could theoretically create an image element
and render your own image, here I'll just go with text.
I want to add this, this span here with this text content.
I want to add this now
in my HTML element and therefore here, I will call append child and I will append my tooltipIcon
here. With that if I now save that and I reload this page in the browser, I actually get an error here.
Now this is a bit of a cryptic error message.
In the end the problem we have here is the place where we try to append the child, the constructor is
is the wrong place for it. Now to find the right place,
we need to learn how the browser or Javascript, the Javascript engine actually goes about creating our
own custom elements because it follows a specific lifecycle for that.